Okta account management policy - main (#4959)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/okta-account-management-policy/main/index.md

---
title: Configure an Okta account management policy
excerpt: How to add rules to an Okta account management policy using the Policies API
layout: Guides
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" />
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

This guide describes how to use the [Policies API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/Policy/) and [Okta Expression Language](/docs/reference/okta-expression-language-in-identity-engine/) to configure rules for the Okta account management policy.

> **Note:** This document is only for Okta Identity Engine. See [Identify your Okta solution](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-oie-version) to determine your Okta version.

---

#### What you need

* [Okta Developer Edition organization](https://developer.okta.com/signup)
* [Groups created](/docs/reference/api/groups/) in your org
* A configured [network zone](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_Security_Network)

---

## About the Okta account management policy

> The Okta account management policy is a type of authentication policy. It defines the requirements when users enroll in authenticators, recover their passwords, and unlock their accounts. The policy uses a rule-based framework to enforce phishing resistance throughout the user journey, from onboarding to authentication and recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Okta account management policy is a type of authentication policy. It defines the requirements when users enroll in authenticators, recover their passwords, and unlock their accounts. Its rule-based framework lets you enforce phishing resistance throughout the user journey, from onboarding to authentication and recovery.
```

> Okta account management policies appear in GET calls to the `/policies` endpoint. However, they’re read-only. You can't create, update, or delete the policy. Disable the feature if you want to stop using it. Most importantly, you can't assign it to apps. This policy applies to Okta account management actions only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Okta account management policy appears in GET calls to the `/policies` endpoint. However, it's read-only. You can't create, update, or delete the policy. Disable the feature if you want to stop using it. Most importantly, you can't assign it to apps. This policy applies to Okta account management actions only.
```

> However, you can use the Policy API to [manage the rules of the policy](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/Policy/#tag/Policy/operation/createPolicyRule).

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the Policy API to [manage the rules of the policy](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/Policy/#tag/Policy/operation/createPolicyRule).
```

> However, you can use the Policy API to [manage the rules of the policy](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/Policy/#tag/Policy/operation/createPolicyRule).

Reviewer: see previous note

        }
    },
    "actions": {
        "appSignOn": {
            "access": "ALLOW",
            "verificationMethod": {
                "factorMode": "2FA",
                "reauthenticateIn": "PT0S",
                "constraints": [
                    {
                        "possession": {
                            "userPresence": "OPTIONAL"
                        }
                    }
                ],
                "type": "ASSURANCE"
            }
        }
    },
    "initialMode": false,
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://brent-stellar-org.trexcloud.com/api/v1/policies/rst1k0mWSjjvYzqQv0g4/rules/rul2p9xACRTDf9qZV0g4",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "PUT",
                    "DELETE"
                ]
            }
        },
        "deactivate": {
            "href": "https://brent-stellar-org.trexcloud.com/api/v1/policies/rst1k0mWSjjvYzqQv0g4/rules/rul2p9xACRTDf9qZV0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}'
```

### User experience

> Users must be on a managed device, inside a trusted network zone, and demonstrate low risk behavior before they enroll the designated phishing-resistant authenticator. If they don't meet all of these requirements, they're denied enrollment. That means that they also can't access any apps with phishing-resistant authentication policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users must be on a managed device, inside a trusted network zone, and demonstrate low risk behavior before they enroll the designated phishing-resistant authenticator. If they don't meet these requirements, all fields in their profile settings are read-only, including the Reset, Update, and Remove options for their existing security methods. The phishing-resistant authenticators that they haven't enrolled are hidden, which means that they can't access any apps with phishing-resistant authentication policies.
```

Reviewer: this is one the recent changes I made based on Jake's feedback (may not be necessary for your purposes but it was something the team discussed including as a UX change)

Author: Sounds good. Thank you!

* Use the same value for `policyId`.
* Set the value of `priority` above the catch-all rule but below the first [phishing-resistant authenticator](#add-a-rule-for-your-first-phishing-resistant-authenticator) (if you added it). Be sure that the first phishing-resistant authenticator rule stays at priority 1.
* Use the same Expression Language conditions.
* Your user doesn't need a managed device.
* Your user doesn't need to sign in from a network zone.

If you want to add this rule using the Admin Console, see [Add a rule for authenticator enrollment](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-oamp-enroll-pr-auth).

### User experience

The user experience for this process doesn't change, except that users' authenticator choices are limited to the phishing-resistant options. Consider these two scenarios:

- Users who are currently activated with a single factor can't enroll new authenticators or sign in to apps that require MFA. Refer to this task's prerequisite.
- Users can lock themselves out if they unenroll too many authenticators. Inform your users that they must keep one phishing-resistant authenticator enrolled always.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user doesn't meet the requirements of your Okta account management policy, they can't update their profile settings. All fields are read-only, including the Reset, Update, and Remove options for their existing security methods, and the authenticators that they haven't enrolled are hidden.
```

Reviewer: Same UX scenario as the other task but slightly reworded to fit the context

See [Add ](#add-a-rule-for-authenticator-enrollment).

### User experience

There are no changes to the user experience when you move password recovery and account unlock to the account management policy. However, be aware of how the account management policy works with the following features:

- [Stay signed in](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-stay-signed-in): Works with the account management policy if you configure the authentication frequency correctly. The **Prompt for authentication** setting must be more frequent than the equivalent setting in your Okta Dashboard authentication policy. Setting **Prompt for authentication** in your Okta account management policy to every time ensures that users don't have to wait to reset a password.
- [User enumeration prevention](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext_Security_General): Isn't supported in recovery scenarios with the Okta account management policy.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user doesn't meet the requirements of your Okta account management policy, they can't update their profile settings. All fields are read-only, including the Reset, Update, and Remove options for their existing security methods, and the authenticators that they haven't enrolled are hidden.
```
